I'm going to now walk you through a simple life-cycle of a contract.
This will really help you understand this topic from a broader perspective.
So, we start with developing or writing a contract,
then we deploy it to a local test network or any of the public networks.
Once deployed, we get an address back as to where the contract is deployed.
Using this address, we can invoke it and call various functions on it.
Once a contract has finished its purpose,
it is always a good idea to destruct it,
which means that no one can call functions on it anymore.
Let's look at all these various steps that we've just talked about.
For writing a smart contract,
like I already mentioned,
we will be using solidity for this course.
You can use Visual Studio Code with Solidity Plugin added to it.
You can also use any of your favorite editors or you can always use truffle.
Or the best way to get started is to use remix online editor.
I will walk you through remix in the next concept.
Also, wanted to mention that solidity files have a.sol extension.
It is a strongly typed language what that means
is that the type of the variable should be defined when you declared the variable.
It is similar to JavaScript syntax wise,
but I personally think there are quite a bit of differences too. Moving on.
Once you have written a contract,
the next step is to compile it.
The compiler output two things,
the byte code and the ABI.
ABI stands for Application Binary Interface.
Byte code is what is deployed to the network,
this is more like machine-level code hard to understand.
But ABI is also sent along.
ABI is actually used to interact with an already deployed contract.
ABI is more readable.
If you look at the ABI,
we will see what variables and functions the contract has.
So, we can call these functions from our application side.
Like I already mentioned, after compiling,
we deploy a contract to any of the public networks or the local test network.
Let's consider the Rinkeby public tests network.
Once we write a contract,
I want you to imagine like a class in C or Java.
When we create a class,
they may create instances of the class, right?
So, this contract is just like a class.
When we deploy it, we actually deploy an instance of the contract.
So, if we deploy this contract multiple times,
we create different instances everytime.
Every instance of the contract will have its own address.
After deploying the contract,
we will get an address back.
Now, this is a contracts address.
To invoke it, we will need this address.
They can use online wallets to interact with their contract.
There are desktop wallet too,
like the Ethereum wallet.
There are also hardware wallets like Ledger, Trezor.
As programmers, you can also write your own DAP,
which stands for decentralized application,
that uses Web3 interrupt with our contract.
Web3 is the only programmatic way that
can connect any front-end application to the Ethereum world.
I'm going to now walk you through a basic smart contract layout.
If you look at the first line the pragma,
the pragma would specify the version of solidity that we're writing inside this file.
When this code is fed into the compiler,
the compiler will look out for the specific version.
So, your code does not break.
The word contract is similar to classes in Java.
Remember, all these contracts that you and I are
writing can really be thought of as being classes,
and when we deploy these contracts to any Ethereum network,
those deployed versions can be thought of as instances of this class.
Then you define your storage variables.
Now, these are variables that will exist for the life of
the contract and are automatically stored along with the contract on the blockchain.
Any variables outside the functions are called storage variables.
Then we declare our events.
The contract can emit events when certain conditions are met.
They can write the frontend application,
the watch for these events,
we will talk about more events later.
Then we have a function defined.
This is just a sample smart contract.
It starts with the pragma line,
then we define the contract with the keyword
"contract" and then the name of the contract.
The word string means that this variable will only ever contain a string.
Public means who has access to look at the contents of this variable.
Then we have the name of the variable.
We will talk about the syntax in detail in a future concepts.
Then we have our constructor function.
This is declared with the keyword "constructor".
This function is automatically called when we initiate the contract.
We can pass any initial arguments right here to the constructor function.
Then we have a getName function.
One thing I wanted to mention is that.
Anytime we create public storage variables like name in this case,
an automatic get function is created for this variable.
So, the getName function is not required at all.
But I just wanted you to look at this so I
could explain you that this function is not required.
The next is the setName function.
This is now just a high level view of what the smart contract looks like,
we will cover all these topics in detail in our future concepts.